# Icons

We're using '@tabler/icons-react' as our Icon Library

## How to add a new Icon

1. We need to reach the Lib's doc: [link](https://tabler.io/icons)
2. Use the site's interface to find the Icon you need.
3. Click on the icon and grab it's `ID`. It's `hyphenize string`. e.g. "air-conditioning"
4. React `domains/ui-system/components/ui/icon/mapper.tsx`
5. Add the `ID` to the **type** `name`
6. Add another entry for the `iconMapper` object where the` key` is the ID. e.g: `dots` and for the value we need to import the React Component for the icon. e.g

```tsx
import { IconDots } from "@tabler/icons-react";

export const iconMapper: Record<names, any> = {
  ...,
  dots: IconDots,
};
```

## How to use an Icon

```tsx
import { Icon } from "@/domains/ui-system/components/ui/icon/icon";

<Icon name="dots" />;
```

# Philosophy

This side project aims to validate two things regarding styling for a Web Project:

- The usage of a Component Library as SHADCN UI
- Customizing Components generated by SHADCN UI

# Validation Goals

- [ ] #1 Effort to Create Components and customize them to _match completly different *DESIGN Guidelines*_ from _SHADCN's DESIGN_
- [ ] #2 Effort to maintain/refactor these Components when the _DESIGN Guidelines_ change.

...more coming soon...

# Learnings

## Dark/Light Mode

- We have a constraint: using 'dark:' and 'light:' prefixes for the classes.
- We can avoid this constraint setting 'class' globally, by using the @layer base directive.

```css
.bg-primary {
  @apply bg-primary-dark dark:bg-primary-light text-primary-foreground;
}

.text-primary {
  @apply dark:text-primary-light text-primary-dark;
}
```

## Validation #1

Effort to Create...

### High level of Customization!

The goal here is to simulate a real-world: Customize a CSS Library to fit a Specific and challenging `Design`.

Let's start creating custom styles both on:

- Tailwind
- Components created by CHADCN UI

#### First Effort - Setting Tokens

Create our tokens and setting them in the tailwind.config.js file.

```js
export const ONE_WORD_PALETTE = {
  sun: {
    100: "#...",
    500: "#...",
    900: "#..."
  }
}

...
theme: {
   ...,
    extend: {
      colors: {
        ...ONE_WORD_PALETTE,
      },
    ...
```

#### Second Effort - Using Tokens

`Aproach 1`

Instead of using CHADCN UI generated classes, we can create our own classes. We create a custom color - sun - and set different levels... 100, 200...

We use the Tailwind prefixes in our advantage: bg-, text- and so on.

```tsx
const buttonVariants = cva(
  "shadow-main-bottom bg-sun-100 text-sun-900...",
  ...
```

`Aproach 2`

Keep CHADCN UI generated classes, but modify the styles for those classes on our tailwing config.

CHADCN UI classes like bg-primary, text-primary, shadow-primary-bottom, etc.

```tsx
const buttonVariants = cva(
  "bg-primary text-primary shadow-primary-bottom",
  ...
```

On App's main CSS file, the one responsible for the global styles...\*:

```css
@layer base {
  .bg-primary {
    @apply bg-sun-100 dark:bg-sun-900;
  }

  .text-primary {
    @apply bg-sun-400 dark:bg-sun-800;
  }
}
```

#### Effort #4

### Effort #5

## Pros

## Cons

## Summary

# Development FAQ

# System UI

## Component Creation

This App uses SHADCN UI as a Component Factory.
It provides a CLI that creates a variaty of Components directly inside this codebase.

After creating a Component, it's up to us to customize it in a way each domains can use it to match the `APP Design`

**list of available Components**
`https://ui.shadcn.com/docs/components/accordion`

```shell
npx shadcn-ui@latest init # If it's the first time!

npx shadcn-ui@latest add [component]
```
